tal_ortho(Brainvox)                           tal_ortho(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_ortho − Performs volume orthogonal plane resampling.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_ortho [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  resamples  an input volume into a series of
       images parallel to a different orthogonal plane.   It  can
       be  used to resample an axial volume into a coronal volume
       for example.  In addition, the program allows for any axis
       to be inverted (flipped) during the operation.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       volume template for the output resampled volume.   The  ‐c
       option is used to define the size of the output volume (in
       pixels/slices).  The interpixel  and  interslice  spacings
       for  the input and output volumes are specified by the ‐p,
       ‐s, and ‐r options.  Note that the  output  volume  inter­
       pixel  spacing  is fixed to that of the input volume.  The
       orientation of the output volume axis is  selected  though
       the use of the ‐Dx, ‐Dy, and ‐Dz options.  The unit vector
       describing the output axis in terms of  the  input  volume
       axis  is  specified by these options.  For example, if the
       new X axis is to be the  input  volume  Z  axis,  the  ‐Dx
       option  would be: ‐Dx0:0:1, (mapping the new X axis on the
       input Z axis 0,0,1).  If the new X axis should  be  mapped
       to  the  inverse  of the input Z axis (flipped along the Z
       axis), the ‐Dx option would be: ‐Dx0:0:‐1.  Only  orthogo­
       nal  axis  parallel  one  of  the  input axis are allowed.
       Thus, the only valid values to a ‐D option are 0,  1,  and
       ‐1.  In addition, two of the three values must be 0.  Sam­
       pling is done via nearest neighbor.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  1  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:100.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped  before using (useless in the current mode,
              but would be needed to support filtering).

       ‐v     This enables verbose mode.

       ‐s(interslice)
              The interslice spacing  of  the  intput  volume  is
              specified by this option.  Default:1.

       ‐p(interpixel)
              The interpixel spacing of the input volume is spec­
              ified by this option.  Default:1.

       ‐r(interslice)
              The interslice spacing  of  the  output  volume  is
              specified  by  this option Output volume interpixel
              spacing  is  the  same  as   the   input   volume).
              Default:1.

       ‐d(x:y:z)
              This  option  selects the size and number of slices
              in the output volume.  Default: 256:256:100.

       ‐Dx(x:y:z)
              This option selects the orientation of the  X  axis
              in the output volume with respect to the input vol­
              ume axis.  Valid values for X,Y,Z  are  0,1,‐1  and
              two of the three must be 0.  Default: 1:0:0 (origi­
              nal volume X axis).

       ‐Dy(x:y:z)
              This option selects the orientation of the  Y  axis
              in the output volume with respect to the input vol­
              ume axis.  Valid values for X,Y,Z  are  0,1,‐1  and
              two of the three must be 0.  Default: 0:1:0 (origi­
              nal volume Y axis).

       ‐Dz(x:y:z)
              This option selects the orientation of the  Z  axis
              in the output volume with respect to the input vol­
              ume axis.  Valid values for X,Y,Z  are  0,1,‐1  and
              two of the three must be 0.  Default: 0:0:1 (origi­
              nal volume Z axis).


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_resize

NNOOTTEESS
       Currently, no smoothing filters have been defined.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                              tal_ortho(Brainvox)
