tal_surface(Brainvox)                       tal_surface(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_surface  − Compute volume and surface areas for binary
       volumes.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_surface [options] inputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program computes the volume  and  surface  are  of  a
       binary  (thresholded)  volume.   The  volume  is  read and
       thresholded to a used specified value.  A gaussian smooth­
       ing kernal (of user specified size) is used to remove some
       of the digital artifacts.  A  variation  on  the  marching
       cubes  algorithm  is  then applied to the resulting volume
       (cube‐wise polygon definition based on voxel centered cor­
       ners)  to  compute  surface area.  Volume is determined by
       counting the voxels which after thresholding and smoothing
       retain  one  half  the threshold saturation value.  Inter­
       pixel and Interslice spacings may be specified on the com­
       mand line for "real world" statistics and for dealing with
       non‐isotropic volumes.  Two lines of tab deliminated ASCII
       text  are  output to stdout at the end of the computation.
       They report the volume and surface area.

       The program allows the user to specify a  mask  volume  as
       well.   When a mask is specified, only those pixels within
       the mask (or within the smoothing radius of the  mask  and
       not  inside the "object") may contribute to the volume and
       surface area measurements.  This allows for regional  sur­
       face area and volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is 1 byte.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:124.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐r(max)
              This  option  allows the user to specify the radius
              for the smoothing operation. The default is:1

       ‐t(thres)
              This option allows the user to specify the value in
              the  input images above which pixels are considered
              inside the object.  This  converts  a  multi‐valued
              input   volume   into   a   binary   volume.    The
              default:128.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This option allows the user to specify a mask  vol­
              ume  for  the computations.  Only the contributions
              to volume and surface are  for  voxels  within  the
              mask  volume  are  included  in  the  output.   The
              default: all voxels can contribute.   TP  ‐p(inter­
              pixel) This specifies the interpixel spacing in mm.
              The default:1.0.

       ‐s(interslice)
              This specifies the interslice spacing in  mm.   The
              default:1.0.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_math, tal_cutting

NNOOTTEESS
       This  program is similar to the Lorenson and Cline "march­
       ing cubes" algorithm applied on a smoothed binary  volume.
       Lorensen WE, Cline H; Marching Cubes: A High Resolution 3D
       Surface   Construction   Algorithm.    Computer   Graphics
       21:3,163‐169 (1987)

       Internal thresholded boundaries add to the surface area as
       well as external boundaries.

       The default  smoothing  radius  should  not  generally  be
       changed.   It was chosen to minimize the effects of "voxe­
       lation" on an object  (especially  digital  surface  area)
       while remaining an unbiased estimator.


OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                            tal_surface(Brainvox)
