tal_skel(Brainvox)                             tal_skel(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_skel − Computes the skeleton of an input volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_skel [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  performs  a  skeletonization  operation  on
       objects in the input volume.   The  operation  reduces  an
       object  to its underlying skeleton by selectively removing
       voxels from the object until a single voxel thick skeleton
       remains.  The output volume pixel values are the number of
       voxels in the neighborhood of  a  voxel.   The  value  one
       occurs  for an isolated voxel.  Two occurs at the terminus
       of a skeleton.  Three occurs throughout the length of  the
       skeleton  (the voxel itself plus one incoming and one out­
       going voxel).  Output voxels with values of four  or  more
       occur  at  branching  points.  The objects within a volume
       are selected by simple thresholding.  Voxels greater  than
       the  threshold  are  considered to be part of the objects.
       The operation can be performed in 3D, or as a series of 2D
       planar operations.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       output volume template.  The output volume is an 8bit vol­
       ume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All pixels  have  this  offset
              value added before they is used.  The default is 0.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐t(thres)
              This specifies a  threshold  value.   Voxels  above
              this value are considered to be part of the object.
              If the threshold value is  negative,  voxels  which
              are  below the negative of the threshold value will
              be considered part  of  the  object  (allowing  for
              inverse thresholding). The default value:100

       ‐2d    This  option  specifies that the program is to per­
              form plane by plane a 2d version of the  operation.
              The default:full 3d operation.

       ‐h(histfile)
              This  option  specifies  that  a  histogram  of the
              skeleton volume is to be written to  the  specified
              file.  By default, histograms are not saved.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       This  program  is  based on the local Euler characteristic
       method described in the paper:Lobregt S, Verbeek PW, Groen
       FCA;   Three‐Dimensional  Skeletonization:  Principle  and
       Algorithm.  IEEE Trans on  Pattern  Analysis  and  Machine
       Intelligence, PAMI‐2(1):75‐77 (Jan 1980).

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                               tal_skel(Brainvox)
