tal_roi2mesh(Brainvox)                     tal_roi2mesh(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_roi2mesh  −  Converts a series of ROIs into a triangu­
       lated polygon mesh.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_roi2mesh [options] outputfile

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program takes reads a list of ROI filename and  their
       associated  Z  depth  value from stdin.  At the end of the
       list (EOF), the ROIs are sorted by  their  Z  values,  and
       each  pair  of  contours are triangulated.  Vertex normals
       are computed by averaging the  normals  of  the  triangles
       which use the vertex.  The triangulation algorithm is ref­
       erenced in the notes.  The outputfile (or ’‐’ for  stdout)
       is in Wavefront OBJ format and consists of a single trian­
       gle mesh.

       The input consists of a number of lines of ASCII  text  of
       the form:

       Roiname Zvalue

       Triangulation will begin when the end of standard input is
       reached.

       Options:

       ‐t(thin)
              ROIs are thinned to this  fraction  of  their  size
              before being used as surface verticies.   The oper­
              ation involves smoothing as well.  The  default  is
              1.0 (no thinning).

       ‐o(x:y:z)
              Theis  option specifies that the coordinate (x,y,z)
              is to be subtracted from the verticies before  they
              are scaled and written out.  The default:0,0,0.

       ‐m(sx,sy,sz)
              This option specifies a factor by which each vertex
              is multiplied by (after the origin  has  been  sub­
              tracted) before output.  Default:1,1,1.

       ‐g     Write the output file in Geomview NOFF format.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs,    geomview,    tal_surface,   tal_thinmesh,
       tal_mcubes

NNOOTTEESS
       This program is based on the algorithms in:

       Ganapathy S, Dennehy TG, A New General Triangulation Algo­
       rithm   for   Planar   Contours,   ACM   Trans   Graphics,
       10(2):192‐199, 1991.

       Future versions should output the mesh volume and  surface
       area  and might support capping and other output file for­
       mats.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                           tal_roi2mesh(Brainvox)
