tal_smooth(Brainvox)                         tal_smooth(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_smooth − Performs gaussian smoothing on a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_smooth [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  smoothes  the input volume by convolving it
       with a  gaussian  filter.   This  filter  sigma  value  is
       selected  such  that  the FWHM of the filter occurs at the
       extent of the x dimension radius.  Individual radii can be
       specified in each dimension.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       volume template for the output smoothed volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set value added  before  the  data  is  used.   The
              default is ‐256.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐v     This  enables  verbose  mode.  In verbose mode, the
              coefficient values for the gaussian kernal are out­
              put  to standard output in the kernal form that can
              be used by tal_stat.

       ‐r(dx[:dy:dz])
              This option sets the radius for the  gaussian  ker­
              nal.   When  only  a  single value is specified is:
              7:7:7.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This option selects a filename template for a  mask
              volume.   If  a  mask  volume  is specified, output
              smoothed values are computed only for those  voxels
              which  are inside the mask volume (mask voxel > 0).
              The default: no masking is performed.

       ‐d(back)
              This option selects the background value to be out­
              put outside of the mask.  The default value is:0.0.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_stat

NNOOTTEESS
       Currently, the FWHM of the kernal is  selected  by  the  x
       dimension  radius  when  differing radii are specified and
       the spherical kernal is simply truncated early or extended
       in  other dimensions.  Future versions will implement true
       ellipsoidal kernals for differing FWHM in each  dimension.

       When  a  mask  volume  is  specified,  the mask is used to
       select which output voxels the convolution is to  be  com­
       puted  for.   Voxels  used  in the convolution (not at the
       same coordinate as the output voxel) are  not  clipped  to
       the mask volume.

       When smoothing to a particular FWHM value, the output vol­
       ume FWHM is equal to the square root of the squares of the
       input volume FWHM and the gaussian filter FWHM.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_smooth(Brainvox)
