tal_roi_sample(Brainvox)                 tal_roi_sample(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_roi_sample − Resamples voxel values within a series of
       ROIs into a text file.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_roi_sample   [options]   inputtemp   roitemp   outfile
       [pointset, pointset ...]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  reads  an  input volume and a series of ROI
       files (one ROI may exist for each image file).  The voxels
       in each image which fall within the ROIs are output, minus
       a constant, as a tab deliminated ASCII text file.  Option­
       ally,  one or more Brainvox ’pointset’ files may be speci­
       fied.  Additional  values,  one  for  each  pointset,  are
       placed  into the output file.  These additional values are
       the position along the line segment specified by the first
       two  coordinates  in  each  pointset file.  The additional
       values are normalized so that the first two coordinates in
       each  pointset  file  are  1  and ‐1.  Values outside this
       range are possible if pixels exist  outside  the  pointset
       segment ends.

       INPUTTEMP  is  the  input volume template.  ROITEMP is the
       filename template for the ROIs.  OUTFILE is  the  name  of
       the file into which the voxel samples will be written.  An
       OUTFILE of ’‐’ is standard output.  A number  of  Brainvox
       pointset files may be specified as well.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐c(const)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set  value  added  before  the  data  is used.  The
              default is ‐256.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐k(xystep)
              This specifies the pixel step  size  in  xy  plane.
              The  default  is to sample every other pixel in the
              xy plane the value is:2.

       ‐p(interpixel)
              This option specifies the interpixel spacing in mm.
              The default:1.0

       ‐s(interslice)
              This option specifies the interslice spacing in mm.
              The default:6.64

       ‐r(scale)
              This option specifies the ROI scaling factor.   The
              ROI is scaled by this value before being applied to
              the image.  The default is set for use  with  stan­
              dard Brainvox ROIs and is:0.5.

       ‐v     This    option    enables    verbose   mode.    The
              default:quiet mode


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                         tal_roi_sample(Brainvox)
