tal_pca(Brainvox)                               tal_pca(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_pca − Computes the principle components of a series of
       volumes, considering each pixel as an input component.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_pca [options] ncomponents [‐|vol1temp ...]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program computes a  number  of  principle  components
       specified  on  the  command  line by NCOMPONENTS.  This is
       done via singular value decomposition (SVD) of the  intput
       data.  Each input volume is considered a row of the matrix
       to be decomposed (one observation) with each pixel in  the
       volume being one component of the observation (a column of
       the matrix).

       The N requested Eigen values are output on  standard  out­
       put,  followed  by  the  projection of each input volume’s
       data (observation) on each principle component (dot  prod­
       uct  of the Eigen vector and the observation vector).  The
       output is one row per input volume  with  one  column  for
       each  Eigen  vector.   These  projections  can be analyzed
       externally, or used as intput data to a regression  analy­
       sis  (tal_regress).   Eigen  vectors can also be output as
       volumes and viewed separately.

       Filename templates of all the input volumes are  specified
       on  the command line.  If a "‐" is used for the input vol­
       ume template, the input volume  template  names  are  read
       from  stdin.   A  volume  mask may be used to restrict the
       operation to a portion of the volume and step options  (‐i
       and  ‐s)  exist  to  reduce the computation to a managable
       size.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  All  input  volume  must
              have  the  same  depth.   The  default  is  4 bytes
              (floats).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:2.

       ‐s(skip)
              This specifies the step factor for pixels in the XY
              plane.  Default:2.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.  Default: no swapping.

       ‐v[v[v[v]]]
              This  option specifies a verbosity level (number of
              v’s).  Not presently useful.

       ‐o(offset)
              This option specifies an offset value added to each
              pixel before it is used.  Default:0.

       ‐c     This  option  enables variable centering.  The mean
              of each column of data is removed before the decom­
              position  is  performed.   The  projections  are of
              these centered variables if this option is enabled.
              Default: no centering.

       ‐p(projfile)
              Output  the  projection  of  the input data on each
              principle component and write to the file PROJFILE.
              Default:stdout.

       ‐O(num):(outvoltemp)
              This  option specifies that the Eigen vector speci­
              fied by NUM be saved to disk as a volume using  the
              volume  template  OUTVOLTEMP.   If stepping factors
              were specified greater than one, the output  images
              will  be  pixel  replicated  to fill in the skipped
              areas.  The volume  is  a  floating  point  volume.
              Default: do not save.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This  option  allows the user to specify a filename
              template for a mask volume.   Statistics  are  only
              computed  for  voxels  withing  this  volume.   The
              default is to compute for all voxels.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_math, tal_regress

NNOOTTEESS
       This program requires that ALL observations be memory res­
       ident  to  operate.   It also requires that two times this
       amount of memory be available.  The step options  (‐i  and
       ‐s)  can  be  used to decimate large volumes to meet local
       memory requirements.  Note: pixels outside of the mask are
       NOT  stored, thus a tighter mask can be used to reduce the
       step factors.

       tal_pca uses singular value  decomposition  based  on  the
       LINPACK  ZSVDC  routine:  Dongarra JJ, Bunch JR, Moler CB,
       and Stewart GW, LINPACK User’s Guide, SIAM,  Philadelphia,
       1979.

       Currently, only 8bit mask volume are supported.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                                tal_pca(Brainvox)
