tal_CDA(Brainvox)                               tal_CDA(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_CDA  −  performs change distribution analysis on image
       volumes.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_CDA [options] inputtemp outputfile

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program reads the volume specified by the input tem­
       plate and performs change distribution analysis.  It first
       detects local maxs and  mins  based  on  the  neighborhood
       selected  by  the ’‐r’ option and the step sizes.  It then
       checks for kurtosis in the resulting distribution (gamma2)
       and reports the points whose are significant by the gamma1
       test.  The output includes the location of each local  max
       and  min  weighted by their neighborhood, the z scores and
       Talairach space location of the  points.   The  output  is
       sent  to  the specified file or to stdout if "‐" is speci­
       fied as an output file.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐s(ddx)
              The  stepping size in the x axis.  The default is 2
              pixels.

       ‐t(ddy)
              The stepping size in the y axis.  The default is  2
              pixels.

       ‐u(ddz)
              The  stepping size in the z axis.  The default is 2
              pixels.

       ‐v     The entire volume of data is to be  analyzed.   The
              default is to restrict analysis to Talairach space.

       ‐g     Uses an iterative computation of gamma1 and  gamma2
              which removes one local max/min for each pass until
              significance of the gamma statistics is lowered.

       ‐verbose
              Reports to stderr information regarding  each  pass
              when using the ‐g option.

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set value added  before  the  data  is  used.   The
              default is ‐256.

       ‐d(stddev)
              This  selects  the z score value above which points
              are considered significant.  The default is  2.575.

       ‐ties(max_ties)
              Due  to  smoothing, a local max/min value may occur
              multiple times in the local  search  area.   Up  to
              this  proportion  of  multiple  values  are allowed
              before the point is rejected as  a  local  min/max.
              The default is 0.25.

       ‐n(num)
              Number  of patient volumes summed to make the input
              volume.  The default is 1.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐r(dx[:dy:dz])
              This specifies the radius (in terms  of  number  of
              stepping  sizes  in  each dimension) within which a
              point must be a local min/max to be considered.  If
              only  DX is specified, it is assumed that DY and DZ
              are the same as DX.  Individual values may be spec­
              ified  for  all  axis  by separating the numbers by
              colons (:).  The default is: 2:2:2.

       ‐thres(V)
              In this mode, the gamma statistics are ignored, and
              all  points  with z scores (absolute values) over V
              are output.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This option allows the user to specify an 8bit mask
              volume.  Only voxels for which the entire sphere of
              the search area (‐r) is within the mask are consid­
              ered as possible mins or maxs.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       Brainvox Program Reference Guide, tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       Talairach space assumes the same conventions as the Brain­
       vox program.

       This program is based  on  information  in  the  following
       paper:  Fox PT, Mintun MA, Reiman EM, Raichle ME; Enhanced
       Detection of  Focal  Brain  Responses  Using  Intersubject
       Averaging  and  Change‐Distribution Analysis of Subtracted
       PET Images. J. Cereb Blood Flow Metab 8:642‐653 (1988).

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa




                                                tal_CDA(Brainvox)
