tal_rerandom(Brainvox)                     tal_rerandom(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_rerandom  − Computes a t map threshold for a series of
       volumes using a non‐parametric re‐randomization technique.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_rerandom [options] n_subjects [‐|vol1temp ...]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  takes  a number of volumes specified on the
       command line by N_SUBJECTS.  It assumes that these volumes
       are  differences  between  two  other volumes.  If the two
       original volumes are given the labels A  and  B  then  the
       input volumes can be assumed to be A‐B.  This package com­
       putes T score maps for all  combinations  of  N_SUBJECTS/2
       being  relabeled  B‐A.  A distribution of maximum T values
       for all such re‐randomizations is computed.  The  signifi­
       cance of the original labeling is taken to be proportional
       to the location of its Tmax  value  in  the  distribution.
       The  original  T  map can be thresholded at a level deter­
       mined by the Tmax distribution.  The  program  can  output
       the correct T map volume as well as the Tmax distribution.

       Filename templates of all the input volumes are  specified
       on  the command line.  If a "‐" is used for the input vol­
       ume template, the input volume  template  names  are  read
       from  stdin.   A  volume  mask may be used to restrict the
       operation to a portion of the volume.  By default the pro­
       gram will attempt to compute all the possible rerandomiza­
       tions.  The user may specify a maximum number of rerandom­
       izations to compute.  If this number is exceeded, the pro­
       gram will sample the  rerandomization  distribution  (with
       replacement)  instead of computing all the possible cases.
       In the case of an odd number of subjects, rerandomizations
       will  be computed for n choose (n/2) and (n/2)+1. For n=7,
       the complete 7C3 and 7C4 pools will be computed.  In  case
       of  sampling  with an odd number of subjects, the 7C3 pool
       or 7C4 pool is selected at random for each trial.

       Because of the extremely  long  computational  times  this
       program  requires,  a  simple  checkpointing mechinism has
       been implemented which allows the program  to  be  stopped
       and  restarted where it left off at a later time.  See the
       "‐R" option.

       The program also supports the  computation  of  histograms
       from the Tmax values of the re‐randomization distribution.
       The histogram range and bucketsize, as well  as  the  han­
       dling  of  outliers, can be specified on the command line.
       The histogram is written to disk as  an  ASCII  text  file
       with  each  line specifying the center of a bucket and the
       number of pixels which fell into the bucket.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  All  input  volume  must
              have  the  same  depth.   The  default  is  4 bytes
              (floats).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐s(seed)
              This  specifies the seed for the random number gen­
              erator used when in sampling mode.  It can be  used
              to help reproduce "random" results.  Default:1.

       ‐R(basename)
              This   option   specifies  that  the  checkpointing
              mechinism is to be enabled using the base  filename
              BASENAME.  If a file by the name "basename".kill is
              created in the working directory of  this  program,
              the  program  will  write  its current state to the
              file "basename".restart_data  and  write  a  simple
              shell  script  to  the file "basename".restart.  To
              continue the computation where it left off, run the
              script  file "basename".restart.  Do NOT delete the
              file "basename".kill as the program  will  do  this
              automatically  and uses it to determine if the file
              "basename".restart_data    is    to    be     read.
              Default:none

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.  Default: no swapping.

       ‐v[v[v[v]]]
              This option specifies a verbosity level (number  of
              v’s).

       ‐o(offset)
              This option specifies an offset value added to each
              pixel before it is used. The default:0

       ‐M(maxtrials)
              This option allows the user to set a maximum number
              of  rerandomizations  to attempt.  If the number of
              rerandomizations exceeds this number,  the  program
              will  switch into a sampling mode and generate MAX­
              TRIALS rerandomizations  at  random  choosing  them
              with replacement.  The default:1000

       ‐Hfile(histofile)
              This  option  specifies  a file to save a Tmax his­
              togram into.  The default:no histogram is saved.

       ‐Hmin(minval)
              This option specifies the value of  the  center  of
              the first histogram bucket.  The default:0.0.  Note
              that the first bucket extends from this value  plus
              and minus one‐half of the bucketsize.

       ‐Hmax(maxval)
              This  option  specifies  the value of the center of
              the  last  histogram  bucket.   The  default:255.0.
              Note  that  the last bucket extends from this value
              plus and minus one‐half of the bucketsize.

       ‐Hsize(binsize)
              This option specifies  the  width  of  a  histogram
              bucket.  The default:1.0.

       ‐Hkeep This  option  specifies that pixels values which do
              not fall into the range from min to max are  to  be
              mapped  into  the closest bucket.  By default pixel
              values outside the min‐max range are not counted.

       ‐V(outvoltemplate)
              This option specifies the name of a  volume  to  be
              saved  containing  the Tmap for the "proper" remap­
              ping.  This should be thresholded using information
              in the file output by the ‐Otmax option. The volume
              is a floating point volume.  Default: do not  save.

       ‐W(outvoltemplate)
              This  option  specifies  the name of a volume to be
              saved containing the smoothed variance map for  the
              "proper" remapping.  The volume is a floating point
              volume.  Default: do not save.

       ‐Oabs  Specifies that the comparison for declaring a  Tmax
              value  to  be  greater  than another should be per­
              formed on absolute  values.   Default:  use  signed
              values

       ‐Otmax(file)
              This  option  specifies  the  name  of a file which
              includes a list of all Tmax values  for  every  re‐
              randomization.  The list contains columns sorted by
              iteration and by T value and includes a  column  of
              the rank of each observation.  This file is updated
              after each iteration.  Default: do not save.

       ‐Ostats(file)
              This option specifies the name of a file which will
              contain some extra information regarding the number
              of iterations and the rank of the proper  labeling.
              Default: stdout.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This  option  allows the user to specify a filename
              template for a mask volume.   Statistics  are  only
              computed  for  voxels  withing  this  volume.   The
              default is to compute for all voxels.

       ‐k(kernalfile)
              This option specifies a filename of a kernal to  be
              used  for smoothing the variance locally before the
              T value is  computed.   Default:  no  smoothing  is
              used.

       The ASCII kernal file has the following format:

       Xsize Ysize Zsize

       Followed by Zsize 2D matrices of the following format:

       v11 v21 v31 ... vXsize1

       v12 v22 v32 ... vXsize2

       v13 v23 v33 ... vXsize2


       v1Ysize v2Ysize v3Ysize ... vXsizeYsize

       A  total  of  (Xsize*Ysize*Zsize)  values follow the three
       value header  line.   These  values  specify  what  voxels
       around  each  voxel  are  to be used in the computation of
       local statistics.  A value of 0 in  the  kernal  signifies
       that  a  particular voxel is not to be used.  The relative
       weight of each voxel used in  the  smoothing  function  is
       given  by the kernal.  For even weighting, only the values
       0 and 1 should be used in the kernal.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_math, tal_regress, tal_stat, tal_smooth

NNOOTTEESS
       Input difference images are converted  to  a  16bit  fixed
       point  format  internally  (1+6.9).   This  means that the
       input data can only range from +64 to ‐64 and are  brought
       into  the computation with a resolution of 0.00195 (1/512)
       units.  This greatly reduces the program’s memory usage at
       the  expense  of  some  dynamic range and resolution.  All
       computations using this  fixed  point  data  (Sums,Sum  of
       Squares,Variances,  Variance  smoothing, and T scores) are
       done at full floating point resolution.

       In the current smoothing implementation,  a  strip  around
       the border of each image (xy plane only) the same width as
       the radius of the smoothing kernal is not smoothed.  It is
       assumed  that useful data is not located within this band.
       If a single point kernal is used, the strip has no  width,
       but no smoothing is performed either.

       This  program  is based on ideas and methodology presented
       in: Holmes AP, Blair RC, Watson JDG, Ford I;  Non‐Paramet­
       ric  Analysis  Of Statistic Images from Functional Mapping
       Experiments. JCBFM (in press)

       Currently, only 8bit mask volume are supported.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                           tal_rerandom(Brainvox)
