tal_mcubes(Brainvox)                         tal_mcubes(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_mcubes − Performs volumetric isosurface detection.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_mcubes [options] inputtemp outputfile

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program reads a volume specified by the filename tem­
       plate INPUTTEMP and an optional mask volume.  The  isosur­
       face  through  the  volume  at  the specified threshold is
       detected using a variant of the marching cubes  algorithm.
       The  resulting polygon mesh is output.  Vertex normals are
       computed by averaging the normals of the  triangles  which
       use  the  vertex.   OUTPUTFILE  (or  ’‐’ for stdout) is in
       Wavefront OBJ format and consists  of  a  single  triangle
       mesh.    Output  coordinates  are  in  voxel  indicies  by
       default.  The interpixel and interslice spacings (as  well
       as  the  origin) may be specified to place the output mesh
       into a scaled and translated space.  Note: the  interpixel
       and  interslice  spacings are applied before the origin is
       subtracted.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is 1 byte.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐g     Write the output file in Geomview NOFF file format.

       ‐v     This  option  enables  verbose mode (currently use­
              less).

       ‐p(interpixel)
              This option specifies the interpixel spacing of the
              original volume.  The default is 1.0.

       ‐s(interslice)
              This option specifies the interslice spacing of the
              original volume.  The default is 1.0.

       ‐o(x:y:z)
              Theis option specifies that the coordinate  (x,y,z)
              is  to  be subtracted from the verticies after they
              are scaled.  The default:0,0,0.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This option specifies a volume which is used  as  a
              mask  to  reduce  the search area.  This must be an
              8bit volume.  Default:all voxels tested

       ‐t(thres)
              This specifies the  isocontour  threshold  to  use.
              The default is 128.0.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, geomview, tal_surface, tal_thinmesh

NNOOTTEESS
       This  program is similar to the Lorenson and Cline "march­
       ing cubes" algorithm:

       Lorensen WE, Cline H; Marching Cubes: A High Resolution 3D
       Surface   Construction   Algorithm.    Computer   Graphics
       21:3,163‐169 (1987)


OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_mcubes(Brainvox)
