tal_edm(Brainvox)                               tal_edm(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_edm  −  Computes a Euclidean distance map for an input
       volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_edm [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This computes a Euclidean distance map (EDM)  for  objects
       in  the  input  volume.  The value of a voxel in an EDM is
       equal to the distance from that voxel to the  edge  of  an
       object  in  the  volume.  A thresholded EDM can be used to
       quickly erode a volume.  A thresholded EDM of the  inverse
       of an input volume can be used to quickly dilate a volume.
       The objects within a volume are selected by simple thresh­
       olding.   Voxels greater than the threshold are considered
       to be part of the objects.  The operation can be performed
       in 3D, or as a series of 2D planar operations.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       output volume template.  The output volume is an 8bit vol­
       ume unless the ‐s option is specified, in which case it is
       16bit.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16  bit  data  offset.  All pixels have this offset
              value added before they is used.  The default is 0.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐t(thres)
              This  specifies  a  threshold  value.  Voxels above
              this value are considered to be part of the object.
              If  the  threshold  value is negative, voxels which
              are below the negative of the threshold value  will
              be  considered  part  of  the  object (allowing for
              inverse thresholding). The default value:100

       ‐2d    This option specifies that the program is  to  per­
              form  plane by plane a 2d version of the operation.
              The default:full 3d operation.

       ‐h(histfile)
              This option specifies that a histogram of  the  EDM
              volume  is to be written to the specified file.  By
              default, histograms are not saved.

       ‐s(scale)
              This option specifies an integer scale  factor  for
              the  EDM volume.  The value should be between 1 and
              256.  The output volume  will  be  16bits  if  this
              option  is  used and will have some additional sub‐
              voxel accuracy that is not found  in  the  unscaled
              EDM.   The  voxel value in the scaled EDM should be
              divided by the scale factor to get the true  (frac­
              tional) EDM value.  The default:8bit unscaled EDMs.

       ‐sip(interpixel)
              This option allows the user to specify  the  inter­
              pixel  spacing.   This  can  be used in conjunction
              with the scaled (‐s) option to improve the accuracy
              of 3D EDMs.  The default:1.0.

       ‐sis(interslice)
              This  option  allows the user to specify the inter­
              slice spacing.  This can  be  used  in  conjunction
              with the scaled (‐s) option to improve the accuracy
              of 3D EDMs.  The default:1.0.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                                tal_edm(Brainvox)
