tal_vbin(Brainvox)                             tal_vbin(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_vbin − Performs basic image file viewing operations.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_vbin [options] binfile [xsize ysize [palettefile]]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  reads  a  binary file and views it using an
       GLUT/OpenGL based viewer.  The program can guess the image
       size,  read  compressed  files, and apply a palette to the
       image.  Support for 8, 16 and floating  point  formats  is
       included.   The  palette  file  is  a 768 byte file in the
       form: [RRR... GGG...   BBB...].    BINFILE  is  the  input
       binary  filename.   All  GLUT  command line parameters are
       allowed as well.  The display  can  be  resized,  and  the
       image  will  be stretched to fit.  The display can also by
       quit by pressing the  uncompressed  file  size  in  bytes,
       removing  the  header,  dividing by the size of a pixel in
       bytes, and taking the square root, assuming the  image  to
       be square.

       Note:  unlike  the  rest  of the tal_programs, options and
       their values are space separated in this program.

       Options:

       ‐pid   By default, the program will  remain  connected  to
              the  cmdline.  With this option the program is dis­
              associated from the command line and the process id
              of the display invoked is printed on stdout.

       ‐head h
              This  specifies  the number of (uncompressed) bytes
              to skip before treating the rest of the file as  an
              image. Default:0.

       ‐pos x y
              This  requests  that  the  display be placed at the
              location x,y on the screen.  Default: none.

       ‐z1|‐8 This specifies that the file is to  be  interpreted
              as  unsigned  byte  pixels.   Default:  this is the
              default.

       ‐z2|‐16
              This specifies that the file is to  be  interpreted
              as  unsigned  short  pixels.   By default pixels in
              this mode are  automatically  scaled  (min,max)  to
              (0,255) for display.

       ‐z3|‐24
              This  specifies  that the file is to be interpreted
              as an  RGB  image  with  unsigned  char  components
              (RGBRGBRGB...).

       ‐z4|‐float
              This  specifies  that the file is to be interpreted
              as IEEE floating point pixels.  By  default  pixels
              in  this mode are automatically scaled (min,max) to
              (0,255) for display.

       ‐max max
              This specifies the maximum pixel  value  for  16bit
              and  float  scaling.   Default:  the  largest pixel
              value in the image.

       ‐min min
              This specifies the minimum pixel  value  for  16bit
              and  float  scaling.   Default:  the smallest pixel
              value in the image.

       ‐swap  This forces byte swapping for  16bit  and  floating
              images.   Byte swapping is only supported for 16bit
              images.  By default, the program attempts to  guess
              the proper byte swapping.

       ‐noswap
              This  disables byte swapping for 16bit and floating
              images.  Byte swapping is only supported for  16bit
              images.   By default, the program attempts to guess
              the proper byte swapping.

       ‐noflip
              This disables vertical image flipping.  The default
              is to flip the image vertically.

       ‐pal palfile
              This  specifies  the  name  of a palette file to be
              used to colorize the image.  It is not used in  ‐z3
              mode.

       ‐wait  This specifies the program should run the the fore­
              ground and not spawn off an independant child  pro­
              cess.  It "waits" for the program to be exited.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       Byte swapping is only supported for 16bit images.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                               tal_vbin(Brainvox)
