tal_rename(Brainvox)                         tal_rename(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_rename  −  Performs  batch  image file renaming opera­
       tions.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_rename [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program applies a UNIX command to a series  of  file­
       names  generated  from  a pair of filename templates.  See
       the tal_programs man page for details on filename template
       formation.   This program scans through a pair of filename
       templates, generating a UNIX commandline of the form  "cmd
       infile  outfile" for each pair of filenames.  "cmd" may be
       any UNIX command (mv, cp, and rm are all  pretty  useful).
       Note  that  a  filename  template of " " will result in no
       filename being generated (very useful with rm) and a  tem­
       plate  with no number field will return the template with­
       out  substitution  (e.g.  "tal_rename   "‐cln   ‐s"   base
       dest_%%%.pic"  will create a series of symbolic links from
       the file "base" to files named  by  "dest_XXX.pic").   The
       output file numbers are the same as the input file numbers
       by default.  The user may specify  separate  starting  and
       step  sizes  for  the output file numbers.  No last output
       file number is needed (stopping is determined by the input
       file numbers).

       INPUTTEMP  is  the input filename template.  OUTPUTTEMP is
       the filename template.

       Warning: try the ‐t option on your tal_rename  commandline
       BEFORE  running  it  for real.  A poorly formed tal_rename
       commandline can really ruin your day!

       Options:

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the file number for the first  image
              in the input template. Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies  the file number for the last image
              in the input template. Default:124.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              input file to the next. Default:1.

       ‐F(start)
              This  specifies the file number for the first image
              in the output  template.   Default:  (same  as  the
              input file start value).

       ‐I(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              output file to the next.   Default:  (same  as  the
              input file step value).

       ‐t     This  enables  the  test  mode.   Each  command  is
              printed, but no commands are executed.

       ‐v     This enables verbose mode, which  prints  out  each
              command as it is executed.

       ‐c(cmd)
              This  option selects the UNIX command which will be
              used.  The command  will  have  the  two  filenames
              specified as parameters: {cmd} infile outfile.  The
              default is: mv.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_rename(Brainvox)
