tal_cutting(Brainvox)                       tal_cutting(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_cutting  − Using a set of ROIs, "paints" portions of a
       volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_cutting [options] roitemp inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program reads matched pairs of ROIs and images.  The
       pixels  outside  (optionally inside) the ROI are "painted"
       (set) to a user supplied value. Generally  the  ROIs  come
       from  Brainvox. The default behavior is to set pixels out­
       side the ROIs to 0, thus cutting out  a  region  from  the
       volume.   For  image  slices  where ROIs do not exist, all
       pixels in the slice are considered outside the ROI.

       ROITEMP is the ROI template.  INPUTTEMP is the input  vol­
       ume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the output volume template.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐noflip
              Specifies that ROIs are not to be flipped over  the
              X  axis before applying them.  The default behavior
              is to flip them, as this is the behavior of  Brain­
              vox.

       ‐v(value)
              This  specifies the pixel value to paint with.  The
              default is 0.

       ‐s(scale)
              This allows the ROI scaling factor to  be  changed.
              The  default  value is 0.5 which is appropriate for
              Brainvox.  (In  Brainvox,  ROIs  are  traced  on  a
              512x512 grid while images are generally 256x256.)

       ‐o     Paint the pixels inside of the ROI to the specified
              vlue.  The default is to paint the  pixels  outside
              of  the  ROI,  thus "cutting" the pixels in the ROI
              from the volume.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       Brainvox Program Reference Guide, tal_programs, tal_math

NNOOTTEESS
       The functionality  of  this  program  has  been  generally
       superceeded  by  tal_math,  however,  this program is much
       faster than tal_math for its more specific use.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                            tal_cutting(Brainvox)
