tal_cluster(Brainvox)                       tal_cluster(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_cluster − Detects and reports on connected clusters in
       a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_cluster [options] inputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program searches for clusters  of  voxels  within  a
       volume (and optionally within a masked volume) that exceed
       a given threshold.  Voxels are considered part of a  clus­
       ter  if  they  can  trace a connected neighborhood to each
       other.  The algorithm works by starting a threshold "flood
       fill"  at  each  valid  location in the volume.  A list of
       clusters and their sizes is  output  to  stdout.   Options
       exist to output a tagged volume from the clustering and to
       seed the clustering from  used  specified  locations.  The
       output  volume  can  be  tagged by an index value for each
       cluster or by the size of the cluster.   Both  are  useful
       for  thresholded volume rendering of the resultant volume.
       The software is designed for use in Talairach  space,  but
       there are options to ease this restriction.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set  value  added  before  the  data  is used.  The
              default is 0.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              Specifies a filename template for an 8bit mask vol­
              ume.

       ‐t(thres)
              Specifies   the  threshold  value  for  clustering.
              Default:100.

       ‐csize Specifies that the value in the  output  volume  is
              the  cluster  size  in  voxels.  Default:The output
              values are unique  index  numbers.   One  for  each
              cluster.

       ‐clessthan
              The  search  should  be for clusters of voxels with
              values less than the threshold value. Default:look­
              ing for clusters of voxels with values greater than
              the threshold.

       ‐6     Use six neighbor rule for  clustering.   Default:26
              neighbor rule.

       ‐h(histofile)
              Specifies  a filename to save the cluster size his­
              togram data into.  A filename of "‐" specifies std­
              out.  Default:histogram data are not saved.

       ‐cvol(outtemp)
              Specifies  a  filename  template  to save the 16Bit
              cluster volume to disk.  The values in the  cluster
              volume  are  determined  by  the  ‐csize  flag.  By
              default, the volume is not saved.

       ‐cmin(min)
              Report only cluster sizes above the  specified  min
              value.  Default:0.

       ‐seeded
              In  this  mode, a list of "seed" point is read from
              stdin.  These points are used as starting locations
              for the clustering.  No other locations in the vol­
              ume are used as cluster search starting  locations.
              By  default  the  seed points are read as Talairach
              space locations, reading three  numbers  per  input
              line  until  an  EOF  is  reached.   See  "‐r"  and
              "‐notal" options.

       ‐seed+thres
              This mode is identical  to  "‐seeded"  except  that
              each  seed  point  has  a separate threshold value.
              This value is input as a fourth value on the  input
              line.   If  no  fourth value is specified, the "‐t"
              value is used instead.

       ‐notal Seed points locations and output locations  are  in
              pixel  coordinates. Default: Talairach coordinates.

       ‐r(radius)
              This option allows for a search radius  around  the
              seed points to be specified.  All voxels within the
              radius around each of the seed points are  used  as
              starting  locations  for  the  cluster search.  The
              default radius is 3.0.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       Brainvox Program Reference Guide, tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       The ‐r option is only used with the ‐seeded option.   When
       ‐seeded  is specified, points are read from standard input
       in the form: (XXX YYY ZZZ stat) Stat is ignored, except in
       "‐seed+thres"  mode, where it is used as the threshold for
       the individual seed point.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                            tal_cluster(Brainvox)
