tal_resample(Brainvox)                     tal_resample(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_resample − Resamples a volume into Talairach space.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_resample [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This   program  reads  an  input  volume  and  a  Brainvox
       Talairach space calibration file.  It then  resamples  the
       input  volume  and outputs a volume in Talairach space.  A
       pre‐interpolated nearest neighbor algorithm  is  used  for
       resampling.   Output voxels are only computed for the vox­
       els considered to be located inside Talairach space.  This
       leaves a large border around a volume of 256x256 images.

       INPUTTEMP  is  the  input volume template.   OUTPUTTEMP is
       the volume template for the output Talairach  space resam­
       pled volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:124.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐p(interpixel)
              This specifies the interpixel spacing in  mm.   The
              default:1.0.

       ‐s(interslice)
              This  specifies  the interslice spacing in mm.  The
              default:6.64.

       ‐o(dz) This specifies the output interslice spacing in mm.
              The default:1.0

       ‐L(minz:maxz)
              Set the minimum and maximum Z slices to compute for
              in  talairach  space.   The  default  values   are:
              ‐44.0:74.5

       ‐d(value)
              This  specifies  a  value  for  voxels  outsize the
              resampled area.  The default:256.

       ‐t(talfile)
              This specifies the name  of  a  Brainvox  Talairach
              space  calibration  file  to  be used to direct the
              resampling.  The default filename:_talairach.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                           tal_resample(Brainvox)
