tal_trace(Brainvox)                           tal_trace(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_trace  −  Detects the closed contours in a volume on a
       slice by slice basis.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_trace [options] inputtemp roibasename

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program detects the contours on  each  slice  of  the
       input  volume.  The contouring value may be slected by the
       user.  Only exterior contours are detected.

       This program can be used to convert a voxel volume into an
       ROI volume.

       INPUTTEMP  is the input volume template.  The input volume
       can only be in 8 or 16 bit  format.   ROIBASENAME  is  the
       base  name  for the output rois.  This name should include
       one template field.  The program will fill in the template
       field  with  the  slice number and will append a string in
       the  form  ’_000.roi’  to  the  resulting  basename.   The
       appended  string  will increment for each roi found in the
       slice.  For example, if the ROIBASENAME is ’base_%%%’  and
       on slice 10 there were 3 rois, the rois for slice 10 would
       be named: ’base_010_000.roi’,

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is 1.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐t(thres)
              This specifies a threshold value.   The  isocontour
              lines  are  generated  at  this  pixel  value.  The
              default value:1

       ‐omax  Specifies that pixels outside of the image  are  to
              be  considered to be at maximum value.  By default,
              pixels outside the image are considered to be mini­
              mum valued.

       ‐noflip
              Specifies  that ROIs are not to be flipped over the
              X axis before applying them.  The default  behavior
              is  to flip them, as this is the behavior of Brain­
              vox.

       ‐s(scale)
              This allows the ROI scaling factor to  be  changed.
              The  default  value is 2.0 which is appropriate for
              Brainvox.  (In  Brainvox,  ROIs  are  traced  on  a
              512x512 grid while images are generally 256x256.)

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       Only  1000  ROIs  are  allowed  on each slice and floating
       point input volumes are not supported.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                              tal_trace(Brainvox)
