tal_median(Brainvox)                         tal_median(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_median − Performs median smoothing on a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_median [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  applies  a  median smoothing filter to each
       voxel in a volume.  The filter can be of  any  rectangular
       size and is clipped at the edges of the volume.  The voxel
       is replaced by the median of all its neighbors within  the
       rectangle, centered on the voxel in question.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       volume template for the output filtered volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth  in  bytes.   The  default  is  1
              byte/pixel.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume. Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume. Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next. Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This   specifies  a  mask  for  the  voxels  to  be
              smoothed.  Only voxels which are  inside  the  mask
              are  used  when  computing any median.  Default:all
              voxels are processed.

       ‐v     This enables verbose mode.  Currently, this is next
              to useless.

       ‐r(dx:dy:dz)
              This option sets the size of the rectangular median
              kernal (domain).  For a 2D filter, specify  one  of
              the sizes to one.  The default is: 3:3:3.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_smooth

NNOOTTEESS
       The  algorithm is the "Select" algorithm (ACM 489).  It is
       a quicksort algorithm which avoids sorting all the  values
       in each partition.

       Support for a mask volume should be added in the future.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_median(Brainvox)
