tal_sphere(Brainvox)                         tal_sphere(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_sphere − Computes the sphericity of a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_sphere [options] inputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This   program loads a volume into memory and computes the
       sphericity of the volume.  Sphericity is a measure of vol­
       ume smoothness and is output in pixel units.  An 8bit mask
       volume may be specified using the options and  the  output
       sphericity  can  be volumetric, or a average of the planar
       (2d) shericity of all the volume slices.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              Specifies a filename template for an 8bit mask vol­
              ume.

       ‐p     Option to output  the  average  planar  sphericity.
              The default:3D sphericity.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       This  program  is  based  on  information in the following
       paper:

       Friston KJ, Frith CD, Liddle PF,Frackowiak RSJ;  Comparing
       Functional  (PET)  Image:  The  Assessment  of Significant
       Change.  J. Cereb Blood Flow Metab 11:690‐699 (1991).

       Only 8bit mask volumes are currently supported.

       There are some differences between this implementation and
       the SPM ks31.m computation.  These include:

       1) Volumetric basis or averaged slice based.

       2) Zero valued derivative values allowed.

       3) Uses one less change value per 3D scanline than ks31.m.

       Generally, these differences are insignificant if the num­
       ber of voxels is large.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_sphere(Brainvox)
