tal_euler(Brainvox)                           tal_euler(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_euler − Computes the Euler characteristic of a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_euler [options] inputtemp tstart tend tstep

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program computes the Euler characteristic of a  vol­
       ume.  The Euler characteristic is computed for a number of
       different threshold starting at TSTART and going  to  TEND
       in  steps of size TSTEP.  After all the Euler computations
       have been made, a threshold vs Euler number table is  out­
       put  on  stdout.   Additionally,  the  2 caliper diameter,
       (1/2) surface volume and volume values for the region  are
       output  (see referenced papers for definitions).  The com­
       putation can be restricted to a masked sub‐volume.  Voxels
       are  only  considered  where  the  neighbors  (in an Euler
       sense) are all within the volume.  When a mask  volume  is
       specified,  voxels  outside the mask are considered to not
       make the threshold.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume  template.   TSTART  is  the
       first  threshold  to be used for the computation.  TEND is
       the last threshold and TSTEP is the  increment  size  from
       TSTART to TEND.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set  value  added  before  the  data  is used.  The
              default is ‐256.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              Specifies a filename template for an 8bit mask vol­
              ume.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       Brainvox Program Reference Guide, tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       This  program  is  based  on  information in the following
       papers:

       Worsley KJ, Evans AC, Marrett S, Neelin P; A  Three‐Dimen­
       sional  Statistical Analysis for CBF Activation Studies in
       Human Brain.  J. Cereb Blood Flow Metab 12:900‐918 (1992).

       and

       Worsley  KJ,  Marrett  S, Neelin P, Vandal AC, Friston KJ,
       Evans AC, A Unified Statistical Approach  for  Determining
       Significant  Signals  in  Images  of  Cerebral Activation,
       (submitted Human Brain Mapping).

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                              tal_euler(Brainvox)
