tal_standardize(Brainvox)               tal_standardize(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_standardize  −  Performs statistical table lookups and
       transforms on volumes.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_standardize [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program reads and input  volume,  performs  a  lookup
       table based transform and writes an output volume.

       INPUTTEMP  is the input volume template. OUTPUTTEMP is the
       volume template for the computed volume.  The program com­
       putes  the values of a function between two user specified
       values (at a given resolution).  These values  are  placed
       into  a  table.   Each  pixel  value in the input image is
       looked up on this  table  for  an  output  value.   Linear
       interpolation  is  performed  for  input values which fall
       between table values.  Input values  falling  outside  the
       table  range are clamped to the output values at the table
       extremes  and  the  user  is  warned  that  this  clamping
       occurred.

       Options:

       ‐A(tabletype)
              This  option  allows the user to select the type of
              table operation they wish  to  perform.   TABLETYPE
              can be one of the following:

       t2z

       This is the default table transform.  It assumes the input
       pixel values are from a T  distribution  with  degrees  of
       freedom  given  by  ‐df1.  The output pixel value is the Z
       score with the same CDF value as the CDF value  of  the  T
       score.

       t2p

       This  is the t to p transform.  It assumes the input pixel
       values are from a T distribution with degrees  of  freedom
       given  by  ‐df1.  The output pixel value is area under the
       PDF curve from the absolute value of the  input  pixel  to
       infinity.  (One  tailed  cumulative  probability above the
       absolute value of the t score.)

       z2p

       This is the z to p transform.  It assumes the input  pixel
       values  are  from a normal distribution.  The output pixel
       value is area under the PDF curve from the absolute  value
       of  the  input  pixel  to infinity. (One tailed cumulative
       probability above the absolute value of the z score.)

       f2p

       This is the f to p transform.  It assumes the input  pixel
       values  are from an f distribution with degrees of freedom
       given by ‐df1 and ‐df2.  The output pixel  value  is  area
       under  the  PDF curve from the absolute value of the input
       pixel to  infinity.  (One  tailed  cumulative  probability
       above the absolute value of the f score.)

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 4 bytes
              (floating point).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐c     This specifies command line mode.   The  input  and
              output templates are ignored.  The user is prompted
              for an input value  and  the  program  outputs  the
              input  value followed by the table generated output
              value in tab form on standard out.  This mode  con­
              tinues  until  an end of file is reached.  This can
              be useful when standard statistic  tables  are  not
              immediately available.

       ‐tmin(min)
              This  option allows the user to specify the minimum
              input value in the table.  The default is:‐10.0

       ‐tmax(max)
              This option allows the user to specify the  maximum
              input value in the table.  The default is:10.0

       ‐tstep(step)
              This  option  allows  the  user to specify the step
              size for input values in the  table.   The  default
              is:0.01.

       ‐o(offset)
              This  allows  a  pixel value offset parameter to be
              specified.  This value is subtracted from the pixel
              value  before  it  is  looked up from the table and
              added to the table output value.  The default is:0.

       ‐df1(df)
              This  allows the user to specify a degrees of free­
              dom parameter for statistical table  (such  as  the
              Student’s t) which require it.  The default is:1.

       ‐df2(df)
              This allows the user to specify a second degrees of
              freedom parameter for statistical  table  (such  as
              Chi‐square) which require it.  The default is:1.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_math

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                        tal_standardize(Brainvox)
