tal_fft(Brainvox)                               tal_fft(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_fft − Performs fourier transforms on a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_fft [options] imagetemp realtemp imaginarytemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program  computes  the forward and reverse (inverse)
       fourier transform of the IMAGETEMP volume.  It outputs the
       real  and  imaginary  parts of the transform into REALTEMP
       and IMAGINARYTEMP respectively.  If a reverse transform is
       specified,  the IMAGETEMP volume is output.  The algorithm
       is not limitted to power of  two  volume  dimensions.   It
       uses  the  split‐radix, N‐dimensional, fast‐fourier trans­
       form by R. C. Singleton.  Note: if a dimension is a multi­
       ple  of  large  prime  numbers,  the "fast" nature of this
       algorithm is a misnomer.  The operation is performed  "in‐
       place" and the user is cautioned to be wary of differences
       in frequency sampling when all dimensions are not equal.

       When the transform is being used to facilitate  volumetric
       convolution, the wrap‐around reordering option (‐w) should
       be used with the forward transform of the  smoothing  ker­
       nal.  This aligns the output data properly for direct com­
       plex multiplication.

       The REALTEMP and IMAGINARYTEMP volumes are always floating
       point (‐z4) images.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is 1 byte.

       ‐o(offset)
              Data offset.  All image data have this offset value
              added before the data is used as  for  the  forward
              FFT  or  written to disk in the case of the reverse
              FFT.  The default is 0.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume. Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume. Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next. Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐v     This enables verbose mode. This currently serves no
              purpose.

       ‐r     This  option  selects  the  reverse transform (fre­
              quency space to spatial domain).

       ‐w     This  option  reorders  the  spatial  domain   data
              (before  the FFT for the forward transform or after
              the FFT for the reverse transform) from a  0  to  n
              domain to a ‐(n/2) to (n/2) domain by shifting each
              axis in the negative  direction  by  one  half  its
              length.   Smoothing  kernals  should  include  this
              reordering when being transformed into the  Fourier
              domain.

       ‐1     This  option  specifies that the program is to per­
              form a series  (dx*dy)  of  1D  Fourier  transforms
              along  the  Z  axis of the data.  When (‐w) is used
              with this option, only data along  the  Z  axis  is
              reordered.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs, tal_math, tal_smooth

NNOOTTEESS
       The  spatial  reording (‐w) transform is slower for dimen­
       sions of odd length.

       This program can be used in conjunction with  tal_math  to
       provide  higher  speed smoothing than the spatial convolu­
       tion based tal_smooth.

       The FFT algorithm used is from R. C.  Singleton  (Stanford
       Research Institute, Sept. 1968) with modifications made by
       John Beale (July 1995) and Mark Olesen (Aug. 1995) and  is
       covered by the GNU Public License.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                                tal_fft(Brainvox)
