tal_probe(Brainvox)                           tal_probe(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_probe − Returns information about voxels at a point in
       a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_probe [options] inputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program takes as input  a  list  of  Talairach  space
       coordinates  and  a  voxel  volume.  The list of points is
       used to probe the volume for the values of  voxels  around
       each of the points.

       INPUTTEMP  is the input volume template.  The input volume
       is assumed to be in Talairach space.  Tal_probe expects on
       standard input a series of ASCII Talairach space locations
       of the form (score is ignored):

       xxx yyy zzz score

       Output is ASCII test to standard output.  It includes  the
       mean,  min  and  maximum voxel values within the specified
       radius around each probe point.  In the case of the  total
       option  ’‐t’  the  average  probe location is output.  The
       program will stop  when  the  end  of  standard  input  is
       reached.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The  image  depth in bytes.  The default is 2 bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set  value  added  before  the  data  is used.  The
              default is 0.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐r(radius)
              This allows the user to specify the radius of  vox­
              els around the probe points to be analyzed. Default
              radius:3 voxels.

       ‐t     This option  computes  only  total  stats  for  all
              points input.

       ‐m(masktemp)
              This  option selects a filename template for a mask
              volume.  If a mask volume is specified, only  those
              voxels  within the mask volume are considered to be
              within the specified radius (mask voxel > 0).   The
              default: no masking is performed.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                              tal_probe(Brainvox)
