tal_centroid(Brainvox)                     tal_centroid(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_centroid − Computes the weighted centroid of a volume.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_centroid [options] inputtemp masktemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program computes the weighted mean of the  X  and  Y
       locations  of  voxels  in  the volume which meet criteria.
       Voxel criteria can be set by specifying a voxel  threshold
       or by specifying that the threshold be taken as a fraction
       of the mean voxel value in the volume.  A mask volume  may
       also be specified to further limit the volume.

       INPUTTEMP  is  the input volume template.  MASKTEMP is the
       mask volume template.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set value added  before  the  data  is  used.   The
              default is ‐256.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐e(frac)
              This allows the user to specify the fraction of the
              mean voxel value to be used as the threshold value.
              Default:0.75.

       ‐v(value)
              This overrides the ‐e option and directly specifies
              a threshold value instead of using  a  fraction  of
              the mean value. Default:use a fraction of the mean.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                           tal_centroid(Brainvox)
