tal_normalize(Brainvox)                   tal_normalize(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_normalize − Normalizes a volume so that its mean voxel
       is a particular value.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_normalize [options] inputtemp masktemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program reads an input volume and computes  its  mean
       value.   An  output volume is then computed with the voxel
       values adjusted so that  the  volume  mean  is  set  to  a
       selected  value.   A  mask volume is supported.  The input
       volume mean only includes those voxels for which the  cor­
       responding  voxel  in  the  mask  volume is non‐zero.  The
       equation used is:

       output =  (input+offset)*((normal_value)/(volume_mean))  +
       const

       INPUTTEMP  is  the input volume template.  MASKTEMP is the
       mask volume template.  Use ’‐’ for  all  pixels  (no  mask
       volume).  OUTPUTTEMP is the volume template for the output
       normalized volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is  2  bytes
              (unsigned shorts).

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:15.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐o(offset)
              16 bit data offset.  All 16 bit data have this off­
              set  value  added  before  the  data  is used.  The
              default is: 0.

       ‐b     This specifies that 16bit  images  should  be  byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐n(norm)
              This specifies the normalized average value for the
              output volume (The average of the masked pixels  in
              the  output  volume  will  be equal to this value).
              The default is: 50.0.

       ‐c(const)
              This specifies an offset value added to output vol­
              ume pixels.  The default is: 256.

       ‐m     If this option is specified, the output voxels out­
              side the mask are set to 0.  The default is to per­
              form  the  same  normalization as voxels inside the
              mask.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       Currently, the mask volume must be an 8bit volume.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                          tal_normalize(Brainvox)
