tal_remask(Brainvox)                         tal_remask(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_remask − Computes a connected voxel mask.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_remask [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This  program computes a mask of an object(s) in the input
       volume including any inner holes.   The  program  actually
       computes a "non‐object" mask by performing a flood fill of
       those voxels below the user supplied threshold starting at
       0,0,0  in the volume.  The resulting mask is then inverted
       and output.  The output volume has the  value  255  inside
       the object and 0 outside.

       The  program  may  be useful in computing a MRI brain mask
       including the ventricles which can be classified  as  non‐
       brain  if a strict thresholding method is used to create a
       mask.

       INPUTTEMP is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP is the
       output  volume template. The output volume is always 8bit.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The x axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The  y  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐z(dz) The image depth in bytes.  The default is 1.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This  specifies the slice number for the last image
              in the volume.  Default:119.

       ‐i(step)
              This specifies the increment number to go from  one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐b     This  specifies  that  16bit  images should be byte
              swapped before using.

       ‐t(thres)
              This specifies a  threshold  value.   Voxels  above
              this value are considered to be part of the object.
              The default value:1.0

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       There is an internal upper bound on the complexity of  the
       object to be masked.  It should be set high enough for the
       surface of an MRI brain.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                             tal_remask(Brainvox)
