tal_mrinorm(Brainvox)                       tal_mrinorm(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_mrinorm  −  Normalizes  a volume so that its slicewise
       fitted mean voxel is a particular value.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_mrinorm [options] inputtemp outputtemp

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program reads an 8bit input volume and  computes  the
       slicewise mean values along a user selected axis.  A poly­
       nomial is fit to these mean slice values.   Finally,  each
       slice  is  multiplied  by the ratio (128/fit value).  This
       has the effect of normalizing the voxel values.  In  addi­
       tion,  by  using  a  fourth order polynomial, the aliasing
       artifacts seen in volumetric MRI acquisitions can be  mod­
       eled and removed.

       Zero  valued voxels are ignored by the program.  INPUTTEMP
       is the input volume template.  OUTPUTTEMP  is  the  volume
       template for the output normalized volume.

       Options:

       ‐x(dx) The  x  axis  size  of  the  image  in pixels.  The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐y(dy) The y axis  size  of  the  image  in  pixels.   The
              default is 256 pixels.

       ‐f(start)
              This specifies the slice number for the first image
              in the volume.  Default:1.

       ‐l(end)
              This specifies the slice number for the last  image
              in the volume.  Default:124.

       ‐i(step)
              This  specifies the increment number to go from one
              slice to the next.  Default:1.

       ‐v     This option enables verbose mode.

       ‐o(order)
              This specifies the order of the fitting polynomial.
              Default:4.

       ‐d(dumpfile)
              This  specifies  that  the slicewise fitting ratios
              (128/fit) should be saved  to  the  file  DUMPFILE.
              Default: do not save.

       ‐r(dumpfile)
              This  specifies  that  the slicewise fitting ratios
              should be read from the file  DUMPFILE  instead  of
              being  computed  from  the volume.  This allows for
              the fits from one volume to be applied  to  another
              volume.  Default: compute new fit.

       ‐e(err)
              This  specifies  the  maximum voxel error to try to
              correct.  The default is: 100.

       ‐axis(X|Y|Z)
              This specifies the axis along which the fitting  is
              to be performed.  The default is Z.

       ‐avg(X|Y|Z)(X|Y|Z)
              This option causes line profile averages to be com­
              puted for a volume.   The  axis  are  specified  as
              (dim)(report)  where  DIM  is  the axis along which
              profiles are to be computed and REPORT is the  axis
              along  which  averages  are  reported (ie averaging
              occurs along the unspecified axis).  The default is
              not to compute averaged line profiles.

       ‐m     This option selects an exponential dropoff model at
              the extrema instead of a linear model.   The  model
              is valid for an A‐P curve fit only and was obtained
              from a brain with no A‐P aliasing artifact.

       ‐s(interslice)
              When the ‐m option is  used,  the  true  interslice
              spacing (in mm) for the volume along the axis being
              fit must be specified so  that  the  model  may  be
              adjusted.  The default is 1.6mm.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
       Currently, the input volume must be an 8bit volume.

OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                            tal_mrinorm(Brainvox)
