tal_ls(Brainvox)                                 tal_ls(Brainvox)



NNAAMMEE
       tal_nifti  −  prints header information from Analyze/NIFTI
       files.

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       tal_nifit [options] headerfilename

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       This program can be used to display the header information
       for  a  Analyze  or  NIFTI‐1  format file.  By default, it
       prints out the dimensions and scaling of  the  dataset  as
       well  as  the  voxel format and endian.  The options allow
       the program to generate the standard  tal_program  command
       line  options:  ‐x(dx)  ‐y(dy)  ‐z(dz)  ‐f(start) ‐l(end).
       This allow the program to be used as  part  of  a  script.
       Note all the options can be combined on a single run.

       Options:

       ‐xy    Output  the  proper  ‐x(dx) and ‐y(dy) options from
              the input file.

       ‐z     Output the proper  ‐z(dz)  option  from  the  input
              file.

       ‐f     Output  the  proper  ‐f(start) and ‐l(last) options
              from the input file.

       ‐ip    Output the interpixel value from  the  input  file.
              The  output  is prefixed by the value output by the
              ‐hp option.

       ‐is    Output the interslice value from  the  input  file.
              The  output  is prefixed by the value output by the
              ‐hs option.

       ‐hp    Set the output header  for  the  interpixel  value.
              This is only used if ‐ip is specified.  The default
              is: ‐p.

       ‐hs    Set the output header  for  the  interslice  value.
              This is only used if ‐is is specified.  The default
              is: ‐s.


SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       Brainvox Program Reference Guide, tal_programs

NNOOTTEESS
OORRIIGGIINN
       Brainvox, Human Neuroanatomy and Neuroimaging Lab, Depart­
       ment of Neurology, University of Iowa



                                                 tal_ls(Brainvox)
