
Brainvox release notes:

Version 3.14:
	1) fixed two bugs in the scripting language.
	2) added scripting history.
	3) reworked filer handling of top level directories.

Version 3.13:
	1) support for nifti/analyze format files.
	2) a new scripting language has been added.

Version 3.12:
	1) a couple of really nasty filename handling bugs fixed.

Version 3.11:
	1) fixed an issue with name handling in the region editor.
	2) reworked MAP-3 to run under Windows.
	3) removed many of the "system()" calls to simplify the API.

Version 3.10:
	1) added some support for dir names with spaces.
	2) fixed more depth buffer issues.
	3) added support for tal_programs w/brainvox.

Version 3.09:
        1) there is now a Windows (XP, 32bit) version.
        2) fixed issues with depth buffer clipping for planes, etc.

Version 3.08:
	1) a large number of cosmetic changes (renaming, moving items, etc).
	2) fixed an issue with clipping the 3D cursor display lines.
	3) fixed an issue with MAP-3 on the Mac.

Version 3.07:
	1) added HW interpolation as an option.
	2) added point voxel/texture probing.

Version 3.06:
	1) make the arrow keys work on the Mac.
	2) added the ability to save the tracing images as a volume.
 
Version 3.05:
	1) fixed a problem that caused Brainvox to use too much CPU time.
	2) added a means to allow 3D cursor movement for OSX (was alt-ctrl).
	3) fixed OSX window resizing issue.

Version 3.04 beta:
	1) fixed a bug in brainvox_calc where ill-formed ROIs crashed it.
	2) backup speed in trace window works now.
	3) all windows mapped to double buffering...

Version 3.03 beta:
	1) made .gz and .Z file support intrinsic (needed for Win32).
	2) fixed issue with finding the arb_paint program.
	3) added "Preferences".
	4) initial cut at OSX version.
	5) added a "reload textures" option for use with tal_programs.
	6) brainvox-tal_program connectivity re-enabled.

Version 3.02 beta:
	1) improved long filenames support.
	2) fix for 16bit lit HW rendering.
	3) fix for arb_mode angle issues ("hang").

Version 3.01 beta:
	1) initial version with support for longer filenames.
	2) fixes for portability.

Version 3.0 beta:

	This is the first major revision in several years.

	1) hardware accelerated volume rendering
		Requires ARB_fragment_program support and 128MB of video RAM
	2) mouse buttons switched to be more inline with other GUI toolkits
		"setenv BRAINVOX_SWAP_BUTTONS 0" will revert to older mapping
	3) brainvox no longer needs to be in the search path.  It will find
		all its tools on the fly and use absolute pathnames.
	4) added "drag and drop" launching in that the command line:
		brainvox /my/path/name
		will 'cd' to /my/path/name and then run brainvox.  Very
		useful for "dropping" a directory on brainvox
	5) added "auto-rendering"
	6) remapped many of the interaction buttons for consistancy and
		added a "help" menu
	7) poinsets can be "shaded" when occluded (as well as being clipped)
	8) the speed of the tracing "backup" has had limits added
	9) the "quality" menu has been reworked for better options
		organization
	10) more of the code has been moved to libraries reducing replication
	11) updates made for new Absoft Fortran compilers
	12) allow voxel tracing on the "background"
		If tracing in the 3D window is done with the 'Z' key held
		down, the tracing is not clipped to the voxel surface, rather
		the depth is set explictly to Z=0 (the center of the volume)
		Very useful when creating pointsets to be used as clips in
		the texture volume
	13) ALT or CTRL key while rotating cube will rotate in the plane
		of the display.

	Many other minor changes.

Outstanding items:
	Overlay graphics clipping is still broken (since move to OpenGL)
	Mac OSX and Windows support are works in progress
	Long pathnames (>80 chars) cause buffer overflows

